[FLINK-38902][docs] Add user instructions and usage documentation for FLIP-487 (#28003)
apache/flink: docs/content.zh/docs/deployment/elastic_scaling.md

[Adaptive 调度器的局限性](#limitations-1) 同样也适用于 Reactive 模式.

## Rescale History

Before Flink 2.3, users and developers were unable to inspect the internal details of Adaptive Scheduler rescaling history,
causing operational inconvenience.
For instance, users need visibility into specific resource changes, parallelism adjustments,
and the time spent on each internal state transition during the rescaling process.
This information is crucial for tuning parameters to achieve lower latency and higher stability in rescaling.

Therefore, Flink community introduced [FLIP-495](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/x/TQr0Ew) to support recording and storing rescaling history,
and [FLIP-487](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/x/vZCMEw) to enable querying via the REST API and displaying this history on the Web UI.

### The Information and Style About Rescale History

Since Flink version 2.3, a page for displaying `Rescales` has been introduced in the Web UI, 
positioned at the same hierarchical level as the `Checkpoints` page and featuring a similar style.
This primarily includes the following sub-pages:

> - `Overview`:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Overview`
```

  This sub-page displays recent rescale records across various rescale terminal states, 
  along with fundamental job rescale statistics—such as the total number of rescales since job startup and the counts of failures or successes. 
  Additionally, the page supports the display of detailed rescale information.

- `History`  
  This sub-page displays abbreviated information for the most recent `n` rescale records based on configuration. 
  Additionally, the page supports the display of detailed rescale information as outlined below:

>     - The basic information of a rescale

Reviewer 2: Would it makes sense to highlight the field names here (maybe by underlining them)? Right now, this looks like a big block of text. Adding some highlighting here might help seeing the structure of the text block.

Or make it a table per block. WDYT? 🤔

>     - The basic information of the target rescale

Reviewer 3: do we need to say target rescale- can we just say rescale or are there other rescale types?

Author: updated

>         - Rescale UUID: The unique ID in a rescale consists of 32 hexadecimal characters(The UUID definition below is identical to the one here)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Rescale UUID: The unique ID in a rescale consists of 32 hexadecimal characters (The UUID definition below is identical to the one here)
```

>         - Attempt ID: The number ID of a rescale attempts that occurred under the same resource requirements

Reviewer 3: I am not sure what this sentence means, this is one ID but it talks of `a rescale attempts` is it one or more attempts?

Author: Thanks @davidradl 

The detailed description of the rescaleIdInfo is here.

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=334760525#FLIP495:SupportAdaptiveSchedulerrecordandquerytherescalehistory-RescaleID&ResourceRequirementsrequest

Do you think we should keep the picture mentioned in the doc link into the doc ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Attempt ID: The number of rescale attempts triggered on the same job resource requirements.
```
What about that? ☝️

>         - Requirements ID: The unique ID of resource requirements consists of 32 hexadecimal characters

Reviewer 3: is this a UUID like the other one ?

Author: yes.

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=334760525#FLIP495:SupportAdaptiveSchedulerrecordandquerytherescalehistory-RescaleID&ResourceRequirementsrequest

        - Trigger Cause: The reason that triggered the target rescale
        - Terminal State: The end state of the target rescale

>         - Terminated Reason: The reason for the completion or termination of the target rescale

Reviewer 3: it talks of Terminated Reason which implies a termination, then in the wording in talks of completions and terminations as 2 different things. Implying that termination is an abnormal end.

Author: updated

        - Start Time: The start time of the target rescale

>         - Duration: Duration from the start of the rescale to its completion or until now

Reviewer 3: I assume it is always the Duration from the start of the rescale. If the rescale is ongoing I guess the end is now.

Author: updated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Duration: Duration from the start of the rescale to its completion or until now if the rescale operation hasn't completed, yet.
```

>         - End Time: The end time of the target rescale

Reviewer 3: I assume this is the same as Duration unless the rescale is ongoing

Author: consize.
And I had a try on a new description.

>     - The basic attributes and rescale change per `Job Vertex`

Reviewer 3: can we have a reference to Job vertex

Author: Thanks @davidradl 
I have considered this issue before. To be honest, JobVertex​ is such a fundamental term that I didn’t add any external reference links.

Of course , if you think it's required, I'd like to  try to added it.

>         - ID: The unique ID of target JobVertex consists of 32 hexadecimal characters

Reviewer 3: I assume JobVertx is the same as Job Vertex- I would suggest we are consistent.

Author: Yes, +1 from me.

        - Name: The short name of target vertex
        - Slot Sharing Group ID: The unique UUID of target `Slot Sharing Group`
        - Previous Parallelism: The parallelism of target vertex before the current rescale
        - Acquired Parallelism: The parallelism of target vertex after the current rescale

>         - Sufficient Parallelism: The minimal parallelism of target vertex to run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Sufficient Parallelism: The minimal parallelism of the vertex that would have allow the rescale operation to go through even if the desired parallelism wasn't possible to be reached.
```

>         - Desired Parallelism: The desired parallelism of a `Job Vertex`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Desired Parallelism: The desired parallelism of a `Job Vertex` that was specified in the initial change request that triggered the rescale operation.
```

>     - The basic attributes and rescale change per `Slot Sharing Group`

Reviewer 3: I would say UUID - and define that once

Author: updated.

        - Slot Sharing Group ID: The ID of the slot sharing group to which the slot belongs consists of 32 hexadecimal characters
        - Slot Sharing Group Name: The name of the slot sharing group to which the slot belongs
        - Previous Slot: The number of slots before the rescale
        - Acquired Slot: The number of slots after the rescale
        - Desired Slot: The desired number of slots of the rescale
        - Sufficient Slot: The minimal number of slots to deploy tasks in the rescale
        - Request Profile: The request resource profile of the slot sharing group in the rescale
        - Acquired Profile: The acquired resource profile of the slot sharing group in the rescale

>     - The internal `Scheduler State History` of `Adaptive Scheduler` within a rescale

Reviewer 3: Are the states documented?

Author: these states are an abstract representation of the scheduler's internal state; therefore, they were omitted to avoid introducing unnecessary ambiguity.

Reviewer 2: I missed this comment. @davidradl has a point here. We could link to the [StateMachine section of FLIP-160](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=173083547#FLIP160:AdaptiveScheduler-Statemachineofthescheduler). That's where it is documented.

        - State: The scheduler state name
        - Enter Time: The time to enter the state
        - Leave Time: The time to leave the state

>         - Duration: Time spent in the state (Leave Time − Enter Time)

Reviewer 3: does this include the current state which will not have an end time?

Author: this  doesn't include the current state which will not have an end time.
 
 This is determined by the collection mechanism of adaptive state. Simply put, when a rescale adds a state, that state already includes start and end times.

>         - Exception: The exception information about current rescale during the state

Reviewer 3: what does during the state mean?

Author: maybe   `during`-> `within`?

- `Summary`  
  This sub-page displays the total number of rescale events that have occurred since the job was launched,
  along with the respective counts of failures and successes. 
  Additionally, it provides statistical summaries of the rescale history, 

>   such as rescale duration statistics categorized by rescale status, including `Min`, `Max`, `Avg`, and `Pnn` metrics.

Reviewer 3: what is Pnn here?

Author: updated.

You can enable rescale history for stream jobs with the Adaptive Scheduler enabled by setting the following configuration item to a positive integer.
This value indicates the number of recent rescale records retained for the job.

- [`web.adaptive-scheduler.rescale-history.size`]({{< ref "docs/deployment/config" >}}#web-adaptive-scheduler-rescale-history-size): `4`

The default value of the configuration option is `0`. When the configuration value is less than or equal to `0`, this feature will be disabled.

### The Information and Style About Rescale History

Since Flink version 2.3, a page for displaying `Rescales` has been introduced in the Web UI, 
positioned at the same hierarchical level as the `Checkpoints` page and featuring a similar style.
This primarily includes the following sub-pages:

- `Overview`  
  This sub-page displays recent rescale records across various rescale terminal states, 
  along with fundamental job rescale statistics—such as the total number of rescales since job startup and the counts of failures or successes. 
  Additionally, the page supports the display of detailed rescale information.

- `History`  

>   This sub-page displays abbreviated information for the most recent `n` rescale records based on configuration. 

Reviewer 4: Do we have any limitation for this 
or can I put Integer.MAX_VALUE?

Reviewer 2: Fair point. I guess that would be something that should be specified in the configuration docs, hm?

  Additionally, the page supports the display of detailed rescale information as outlined below:
    - The basic information of a rescale</u>

>       - <u>Rescale UUID</u>: The unique ID in a rescale consists of 32 hexadecimal characters (The UUID definition below is identical to the one here)

Reviewer 2: I realize that we do not use the punctuation consistently in the enumeration. Can we add periods to the end of the sentences everywhere to make it consistent?

Author: Nice catch and proposal

      - <u>Attempt ID</u>: The number of rescale attempts triggered on the same job resource requirements
      - <u>Requirements ID</u>: The unique UUID of resource requirements
      - <u>Trigger Cause</u>: The reason that triggered a rescale
      - <u>Terminal State</u>: The end state of a rescale
      - <u>Terminated Reason</u>: The reason of the rescale lifecycle termination
      - <u>Start Time</u>: The start time of a rescale
      - <u>Duration</u>: Duration from the start of the rescale to its completion or until now if the rescale operation hasn't completed, yet.
      - <u>End Time</u>: The end time of a rescale if the rescale is terminated, current time else.
    - The basic attributes and rescale change per `Job Vertex`
      - <u>ID</u>: The unique UUID of target `Job Vertex`
      - <u>Name</u>: The short name of target vertex
      - <u>Slot Sharing Group ID</u>: The unique UUID of target `Slot Sharing Group`
      - <u>Previous Parallelism</u>: The parallelism of target vertex before the current rescale
      - <u>Acquired Parallelism</u>: The parallelism of target vertex after the current rescale

>       - <u>Sufficient Parallelism</u>: The minimal parallelism of the vertex that would have allow the rescale operation to go through even if the desired parallelism wasn't possible to be reached

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - <u>Sufficient Parallelism</u>: The minimal parallelism of the vertex that would have allowed the rescale operation to go through even if the desired parallelism wasn't possible to be reached
```
sorry, that was my mistake.

Author: No worries.
Thank you @XComp 
updated.
